{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\cname textColor;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 USB Port Patching
\f1\b0 \
\
macOS 10.14.1+ does not work with the USB port limit patch and therefore there is no way to have all ports available to configure at one time. RehabMan has updated USBInjectAll.kext to include boot flags for excluding groups of ports\
\
1. Place the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://bitbucket.org/RehabMan/os-x-usb-inject-all/downloads/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 USBInjectAll.kext}} (for port discovery) into EFI/CLOVER/kexts/Other\
USBInjectAll.kext Requirements:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Clover Rename XHCI -> XHC\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Clover Rename XHC1 -> XHC\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Clover Rename EHC1 -> EH01\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Clover Rename EHC2 -> EH02\
2. Reboot\
3. Run \
4. Go to the General->USB tab to check your USB Controllers list. Based on your USB Controller you may need to install additional kexts:\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}8086:8CB1 and macOS < 10.11.1 -> XHCI-9-series.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}8086:8D31, 8086:A2AF, 8086:A36D, 8086:9DED -> XHCI-unsupported.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}8086:1E31, 8086:8C31, 8086:8CB1, 8086:8D31, 8086:9C31, 8086:9CB1 -> FakePCIID.kext + FakePCIID_XHCIMux.kext\
5. Reboot if you need to install one of the additional kexts then run Hackintool again\
6. Go to the General->USB tab\
7. Select all items in the USB Ports list and select the \'93Delete\'94 then the \'93Refresh\'94 button\
8. Reboot with -uia_exclude_ss uia_include=HS01,HS02 boot flags\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Change the HS01,HS02 ports to the ones you have your mouse and keyboard attached\
9. Run Hackintool and go to the General->USB tab\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Plug and unplug a USB 2.0 device into all ports on your system\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The ports that are active will remain highlighted green\
10. Delete all ports that are not highlighted green\
11. Reboot with -uia_exclude_hs boot flag and remove the -uia_exclude_ss boot flag\
12. Run Hackintool and go to the General->USB tab\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Plug and unplug a USB 3.0 device into all ports on your system\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Plug and unplug a TypeC device into all ports (in both orientations)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The ports that are active will remain highlighted green\
13. Delete all ports that are not highlighted green\
14. Set each port to the appropriate Connector using the drop down list\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}USB ports with devices permanently attached (eg. M.2 Bluetooth card) should be set to \'93Internal\'94\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}HSxx ports connected to USB3 ports should be set to USB3\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Internal HUBs are typically connected to ports PR11 and PR21 and therefore should be set to \'93Internal\'94\
TypeC:\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If it uses the same HSxx/SSxx in both orientations, then it has an internal switch (use \'93TypeC+Sw\'94)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If it uses a different HSxx/SSxx in each orientation, then it has no switch (use \'93TypeC\'94)\
15. Use the \'93Export\'94 button to generate files to your Desktop\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Copy USBPorts.kext into EFI/CLOVER/kexts/Other\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If SSDT-EC.aml is created copy it to EFI/CLOVER/ACPI/patched\
16. You can now perform a clean up and remove unnecessary files:\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Remove custom boot flags (-uia_exclude_ss -uia_exclude_hs uia_include=x)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Remove USBInjectAll.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Remove Clover Renames (XHC, EH01, EH02)\
17. Reboot\
18. Run Hackintool and go to the General->USB tab\
19. Select all items in the USB Ports list and select the \'93Delete\'94 then the \'93Refresh\'94 button\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Now you can check all ports are working correctly\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If you need to change a Connector type you will need to export your USBPorts.kext over the current one\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If you made a mistake delete USBPorts.kext and start from the beginning of the instructions again\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Q. What is USBPorts.kext?\
A. It's a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Darwin/Conceptual/KEXTConcept/KEXTConceptAnatomy/kext_anatomy.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20002364-SW8"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 Codeless Kernel Extension}} used to inject the USB ports\
Q. Do I need SSDT-UIAC.aml?\
A. No, this method uses a codeless kext\
\

\f0\b Patcher les ports USB\
\

\f1\b0 macos 10.141+ ne g\'e8re pas le patch USB Port Limit , aussii il n\'92y a aucune possibilit\'e9 de configurer  tous les ports disponibles. RehabMan  a adapt\'e9 USBInjectAll.kext en incluant des boot flags afin d\'92exclure des groupes de ports.\
\
1. 	Placer USBInjectAll.kext (pour scanner les ports) dans EFI/CLOVER/kexts/Other\
    	Pr\'e9-requis: dans CLOVER/Config.plist, section ACPI/Patches\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Renommer XHC1->XHC\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Renommer EHC1->EH01\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Renommer EHC2->EH02\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 2.  	Red\'e9marrer\
3.	Ouvrir Hackintool puis allez dans l\'92onglet General->USB pour v\'e9rifier la listes des controleurs USB. Selon les contr\'f4leurs USB dont avez besoin, vous devez installer :\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}8086:8CB1 pour macOS < 10.11.1 -> XHCI-9-series.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}8086:8D31, 8086:A2AF, 8086:A36D, 8086:9DED -> XHCI-unsupported.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}8086:1E31, 8086:8C31, 8086:8CB1, 8086:8D31, 8086:9C31, 8086:9CB1 -> FakePCIID.kext + FakePCIID_XHCIMux.kext\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 4.	Red\'e9marrer si vous avez installer un ou des Kexts additionnels, puis ouvrez \'e0 nouveau HackintoshTool\
5.	Alllez dans l\'92onglet USB\
6.	S\'e9lectionner tous les ports USB dans la liste et cliquez sur \'94Effacer\'94 puis sur \'94Rafra\'eechir\'94\
7.	Red\'e9marrer en mode verbose avec les argumenbts: -uia_exclude_ssuia_include=HS01,HS02\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Changez les ports HS01, HS02 pour celui o\'f9 est connect\'e9 votre souris et votre clavier\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 8.	Ouvirir HackintoshTool et allez dans l\'92onglet USB\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Branchez et d\'e9branchez un p\'e9riph\'e9rique USB 2.0 dans tous les ports de votre syst\'e8me\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Les ports actifs resteront surlign\'e9s en vert\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 9.	Effacer les ports qui ne sont pas surlign\'e9s en vert\
10.	Red\'e9marrer en mode verbose avec l\'92argument:  -uia_exclude_hs \
11.	Ouvirir HackintoshTool et allez dans l\'92onglet USB\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Branchez et d\'e9branchez un p\'e9riph\'e9rique USB 3.0 dans tous les ports de votre syst\'e8me\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Branchez et d\'e9brancher un p\'e9riph\'e9rique USB Type-C dans tous les ports (dans chaque sens d\'92orientation)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Les ports actifs resteront surlign\'e9s en vert\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 12.	Effacer les ports qui ne restent pas surlign\'e9s en vert\
13.	Affecter chaque port au connecteur appropri\'e9 and utilisant la liste \'94Glisser/D\'e9placer\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Les ports USB avec un p\'e9riph\'e9rique en permanence connect\'e9 (par exemple une carte M.2 Bluetooth) devraient consid\'e9r\'e9s comme \'93Interne\'94\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Les HSxx reli\'e9s aux ports USB3 devraient \'eatre consid\'e9r\'e9s comme USB3\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}HUBs Interne sont normalement reli\'e9s aux ports PR11 et PR21, et ainsi consid\'e9r\'e9s comme \'94Interne\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Type-C:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}S\'92ils utilisent le m\'eame ports HSxx/SSxx dans les deux orientations, alors ils ont un Switch Interne (Utilisez \'94TypeC+Sw)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}S\'92ils utilisent des ports HSxx/SSxx diff\'e9rents pour chaque orientation, alors il n\'92y a pas de switch (utilisez \'94Type-C\'94)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 14.	Utilisez le bouton \'94Exporter\'94 pour g\'e9n\'e9rer un kext sur votre bureau\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Copiez USBPorts.kext dans EFI/CLOVER/Kexts/Other\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Si SSDT-EC.aml est cr\'e9\'e9e, copiez l\'e0 dans EFI/CLOVER/ACPI/Patched\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 15. 	Vous pouvez maintenant nettoyer vos param\'e8tres et effacer les fichiers non n\'e9cessaires\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Supprimer les arguments personnalis\'e9s (-uia_exclude_ss -uia_exclude_hs uia_include=x)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Supprimer USBInjectAll.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Supprimes les patches Clover (XHC, EH01, EH02)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 16. 	Red\'e9marrer\
17.	Ouvrir HackintoshTool et allez dans l\'92onglet USB\
18.	S\'e9lectionner tous les ports USB de la liste, cliquez sur \'94Effacer\'94 puis sur \'94Rafra\'eechir\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls12\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Maintenant, vous pouvez v\'e9rifieR que tous les ports fonctionnent correctement\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Si vous avez besoin de changer de type de connecteurs, vous devez exporter de nouveau USBPorts.kext\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}effacez USBPorts.kext et recommencez depuis le d\'e9but.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Q. Qu\'92est-ce que USBPorts.kext?\
R. C\'92est un \'94Codeless Kernel Extension\'a0\'bb qui sert \'e0 injecter les ports USB\
Q. Avez-vous besoin de SSDT-UIAC.aml?\
R. Non. Cette m\'e9thode utilise un kext sans code.\
}